	1/6 afternoon
Hello Catherine 904.8000,
 
I am writing to express my interest in the position listed under the
heading "SENIOR JAVA/C++ Developer for Well Established Bank."

I have a strong background in Java and C++, and also have done work to
support equities and options trading and analysis, and so am well 
acquainted with that domain.  My background includes wide exposure to
network programming, including software interfacing with TCP/IP, UDP,
HTTP, and FTP.  I have architected several Web applications and also 
the database connectivity of a financial online analytical processing
application deployed at very large banks.

I will follow up with a phone call later today.
 


# phone notes:
Hello Catherine,

I'm calling to follow up on my mail to you about the senior Java/C++ position with an investment bank in San Francisco.

I have a strong background in Java and C++, and I have worked with securities traders before, so I have a good understanding of typical trading interfaces.

My Java background:

I've done financial reporting software and integration of Java accounting software for large companies.
I've done Java-based security options pricing software, which evaluates series of related options evaluating the efficiency of their prices.
I've done Java-based adaptive learning educational software that works over the Web.

C++:
I designed and implemented the database connectivity for an online analytical processing software package.  This was a 1 1/2-year project to support simultaneous access to Sybase, Oracle, SQL Server, Informix and Teradata, with some interesting optimizations like connection pooling and multithreading.

I worked on TRW financial systems' project for American Express to automate backend credit card processing.  I did a file distribution server which performs load balancing over a network, directing workflow of credit card purchases.

Also I designed and implemented software installation and licensing protection in C++ (4 Adynware).

Also I designed and implemented in C++ a macro language on Windows NT, which supports generating keyboard events and manipulating windows to automate repetitive tasks.

At Sybase I designed and implemented in C++ software to control UNIX workstations from PCs for automating tasks.






I don't include much of my work in that area on my résumé because I don't think those projects were that significant from the point of view of software engineering, but in this case I actually wondered about it.  Maybe you can advise me what would be best.
#

Title:   Senior Software Developer     Skills:   Software Engineer          Date:   12-11-2002     Location:   San Francisco, CA     Area code:   415          Tax term:   FULLTIME     Pay rate:   $101-125,000     Length:   Permanent          Position ID:   43407     Dice ID:   cxboyca         Job description:    This job was originally posted December 3, 2002.

SENIOR JAVA/C++ Developer for Well Established Bank

We are a full-service U.S. investment bank and brokerage firm with a
principal office in San Francisco. We deliver capital raising,
financial advisory and risk management solutions, bulge-bracket
trading and global distribution services, and objective research on
global markets and growth sectors to corporations, institutional
investors, financial institutions and government entities.

We are looking for a SENIOR JAVA and C++ Software Developer. You will
be creating an equities trading infrastructure. 50% of your time will
be spent on architecture and design, and 50% will be spent on coding
and debugging. 80% of your time will be spent using JAVA and 20% will
be spent on C++.

REQUIREMENTS:
Expertise with Java, C++, object oriented development, and network
programming. You must be a very strong coder with sharp quantitative
skills.

If you meet ALL requirements, send your resume and follow up
with a
phone call to Catherine at 415-904-8000.
  Requirements: Software Engineer Travel required: none Telecommute: no
