	
	
	
	
	
	hey Julie,
	
	
	
	Hello.  Long time no see.  What's new?  For me, I've gotten married and I
	
	even have a baby coming, or at least that's what my wife tells me.  I had
	
	thought that maybe she was just starting to let herself go.  I guess we'll
	
	find out for sure in another month or so.
	
	
	
	Over the last year I worked on my own product, an online educational
	
	software package, which is now in beta.  Very fun project, although I'm
	
	pessimistic that I will ever make money from it.  Anyway, the beta demos
	
	and user support hasn't taken the much time, and I've felt sorely
	
	underemployed for the last month, and so I've been looking for a job.
	
	
	
	I had heard that it was bad out there, but I was not prepared for the
	
	almost complete lack of response to my resume.  It's remarkable!  I've
	
	seen some decent jobs listed, but I think maybe the pool of idle talent is
	
	big enough that it may be asking too much for the various beleaguered HR
	
	departments to even read all of the avalanche of resumes they are seeing.
	
	What I've heard is that most interviews and jobs are being gotten by
	
	personal referral.  So I've been contacting ex-co-workers to see if anyone
	
	knows about work which might be a match for me.  So do you know of
	
	anything?
	
	
	
	To refresh, I've been working in perl and Java for the last few years in
	
	various projects.  Previously I did a fair amount of C/C++
	
	database-oriented programming.  The gory details can be found that
	
	http://www.adyn.com/resume/resume.html.
	
	
	
	It sounds like you may have picked a good time to get out of Extensity --
	
	it sounds like people generally feel like they are in limbo for the
	
	moment, what with the acquisition.  Anyway, I hope everything is going
	
	well for you.
	
	
	
	
	
	Regards,
	
	
	
	Nelson Sproul
	
	nelson@adyn.com
	
	415.647.8378
	
	
	P.S.: If you are wondering, Patrice gave me your street address.
	