Hello,

I think my skills and background make me a good match for your
Sr. Software Engineer (Req # : 9352) position. To make it easier to
relate your requirements to my background, I have cut and pasted
what you asked for below along with brief summaries of how I measure
up to these various requirements.

- Possess strong verbal and writing skills.
From one of my evaluations at Sybase:

"Nelson communicates clearly, and provides well organized analysis of
issues. Nelson's positive and friendly attitude allow him to easily
communicate with his peers."  My references will confirm that I am a
capable and very willing communicator, in person and in written form.

- Demonstrate business judgement, initiative, and organizational skills.
In my jobs I've frequently juggled many simultaneous projects,
prioritizing according to business need.  I have consistently taken the
lead in identifying problems, proposing solutions, and then executing.

- Be able to work with team members under minimal supervision.
I always keep a friendly and supportive attitude with my co-workers. I
think being nice and maintaining clear and strong channels of
communication are the keys to a pleasant and effective workplace
which doesn't require continual management intervention.

- Be a team player and capable of coordinating development efforts with
members of cross-functional teams.
My friendly and cooperative attitude, along with my excellent
communications skills have helped me be very effective in achieving
results in conjunction with external groups.

- Be able to create engineering documentation in accordance with
organizational standards.
All of my jobs have included extensive documentation requirements.  I have
writing samples available on request, and my references will confirm that
my documentation fit well with group standards and conventions.

- Be able to design, develop, and implement advanced product components in
a fast-paced environment.
I have been very productive in intense, demanding environments.

- The ideal candidate will have taken products from concept to release.
I have contributed throughout the full development cycle for a number of
commercial products, including design, elaboration, implementation, beta
testing and final release.

- The candidate should have a BSCS or equivalent
I earned a B.S. in computer science at Cal-Berkeley.

- The candidate should have 5+ years of experience developing applications
in a commercial product development environment using C++.
I have 10 years of heavy commercial application development experience in
C++.

- The candidate should have working knowledge of object oriented analysis
and design methodologies.
I am very familiar with object oriented design patterns (e.g., GoF), and
have expressed designs using the UML.

- The candidate should be familiar with MFC, HTML, Scripts
I have 6 years of heavy web programming experience, writing perl, HTML and
JavaScript, and automated generators for HTML and JavaScript.


I would welcome an opportunity to discuss your work and my background
further.

Nelson


P.S.: Below is my resume in plain text. I have also attached an
intelligent version of this resume supporting searches and filters. (Note
that the search capability requires an active Internet connection.)


Nelson Sproul

nelson@adyn.com
1209 Glen Ave.
Berkeley, CA 94708
510.868.0926

See http://www.adyn.com/resume/resume.html for an intelligent version of
this resume supporting searches and filters.

Languages:
Java perl UML XML C++ SQL PL/SQL LISP yacc Bourne Shell Pascal

Software:
J2EE JDBC ODBC Sybase CT-Lib Network XSLT SOAP 

Databases 
Oracle SQL Server Sybase 

OS: 
Unix Windows 

7/2001--present Principal Consultant for Adynware Corporation, San Francisco

   Java Adaptive Learning Educational Software:
   Designed, implemented and tested Teacher, a Java-based educational tool for
   students of foreign languages. This application allows students to study categories
   of vocabulary and/or conjugations in any of several languages. The web site
   tracks each student's performance across categories of exercises, automatically
   emphasizing the student's weak areas when selecting new exercises. The product
   was designed with the UML and written in HTML, perl, Java, JavaScript and HTML
   under Windows NT and Windows XP and is available for free online evaluation
   . Also wrote complete product documentation and the FAQ, as well as companion
   grammatical references for French, German, Italian and Spanish. 

   perl GUI interface to J2EE Tomcat Manager Admin Facility:
   Designed and implemented mgr (see screenshot), a perl CGI interface to the Tomcat
   manager facility, allowing administrators to interactively start, stop, install
   and remove web applications under Tomcat. Automatically determines the local
   administrator password by parsing the XML tomcat-users.xml file for maximal
   convenience during development. 

   C++/perl/JavaScript Keyboard Shortcut Facility for Netscape Navigator:
   Designed, implemented and tested Web Keyboard, a software component which greatly
   increases the ability of Netscape Navigator users to enjoy efficient keyboard-based
   navigation of the web. This product was designed with the UML and written in
   perl, C++, JavaScript and HTML under Windows NT (and tested under Windows 95,
   98, 2000, NT and XP), and uses multiple threads to allow executing multiple
   simultaneous HTTP queries. This product's download is available for trial evaluation
   free of charge. Also wrote complete product documentation and the FAQ. 

   Java/perl Dynamic Searchable Document:
   Designed and implemented this resume as a dynamic, searchable document. JAX-P
   is used to execute XSLT to transform XML into perl data, which then generates
   HTML and JavaScript when executed via cgi perl to display my work history.
   This document manages a simple database of my projects which can be searched
   via a form at the document's top. Search terms are highlighted in the search
   results for ease of perusal. Implemented under Solaris Unix and Windows NT/XP.


   Java Remote File Find Facility:
   Designed and implemented a Java servlet which processes XML-based SOAP find
   file queries. JAXM is used to construct and transmit the data. Implemented
   under Windows NT. 

   Java Web Agents:
   Designed and implemented Java agents to poll Web travel service databases on
   an automated basis in search of low air fares. The query component interacting
   with Web servers was written in Java. The parsing component which evaluates
   the query results was written in Perl under Windows NT. 

   Java HTTP Network Sniffer:
   Designed, implemented and tested a tracing tool for logging all traffic on a
   given client machine to and from a web host. Automatically performs hex dumps
   of non-ASCII data. Supports the analysis of web client-server interactions.
   Written in Java under Windows NT. 

   perl Web Site CGI Credit Card Transaction Support:
   Designed, implemented and tested CGI scripts at Adynware Corp.'s web site to
   support credit card software purchases using Signio's client to process authorizations
   and charges in real time. Written in perl under Solaris Unix. 

   perl Web Site CGI Search and Shopping Cart functionality:
   Designed, implemented and tested CGI scripts to search the inventory of the
   online book store www.herplit.com, and to maintain a shopping cart of selected
   items. Written in perl under Solaris Unix. 



1/1999--7/2001 Software Engineer for Extensity Corporation, Emeryville, CA

   Java Accounting systems integration Designed and implemented Java components
   integrating Extensity's expense report applications with customer accounting
   packages and HR Sybase, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL servers. Extensive performance
   tuning of WebLogic J2EE application servers, Microsoft SQL Server, and Oracle.
   Middleware customizations were implemented in Java using JDBC, SQL, and PL/SQL
   under Solaris Unix and Windows NT. WebLogic J2EE application servers deployed
   and tuned for large-scale use by thousands of users at customers such as AirTouch
   (now Verizon), Incyte, Ogilvy, and HBO.  

   Java Accounting systems migration Designed and implemented perl and Bourne shell
   scripts under Solaris Unix and Windows NT to manage the migration of customers
   between major releases. Integrated and debugged Java conversion software to
   export data to XML and back in the new release. 

   Database Management Utilities Designed and implemented Bourne shell, perl and
   LISP scripts to generate SQL load scripts, to restore and dump Microsoft SQL
   Server and Oracle databases, and to edit database tables.  



9/1997--1/1999 Principal Consultant for Adynware Corporation, San Francisco

   C++/perl/JavaScript Browser Accelerator:
   Designed, implemented and tested Browser Spinach, a proxy server which works
   with any web browser to improve performance over slow connections. This is
   accomplished by means of caching, prefetching, and other optimizations; this
   product's main functionality was implemented in Perl and C++ under Windows
   NT (and tested under Windows 95, 98 and NT), and uses multiple threads to allow
   executing multiple simultaneous HTTP queries. This product's interface was
   written in JavaScript and HTML. Also wrote complete product documentation and
   the FAQ. 

   Windows C++ Keyboard Macro Facility:
   Designed, implemented and tested PC Macro32, a program for automating tasks
   under Windows. This program can generate keystrokes, spawn programs and do
   some simple manipulation of windows. This product was written in C++ under
   Windows NT (and tested under Windows 95, 98, 2000, NT and XP), and its download
   is available for trial evaluation free of charge. Also wrote complete product
   documentation and the FAQ. 



4/1996--9/1997 Software Engineer for Whitelight Systems, Palo Alto CA  

   C++ OLAP Server Database Objects:
   Implemented C++ objects supporting communication with Oracle, Microsoft, Sybase,
   Teradata and Informix SQL Servers for Whitelight's OLAP product, currently
   used by Barclay's and J. P. Morgan. These objects allow dynamic SQL and a full
   set of catalog queries, executed in multiple threads via ODBC and Sybase CT-Lib
   over connections pooled for performance. Database vendor differences hidden
   behind an object-oriented interface. Written in C++ under Solaris Unix and
   Windows NT, and debugged using dbx and the Visual C++ IDE. 



4/1992--4/1996 Software Engineer 2 for Sybase Corporation, Emeryville, CA 

   QA test software:
   Designed and implemented software to test internal and external Sybase client
   libraries, verify their conformance to specification, and automatically report
   discrepancies and bugs. Written in C on all major UNIX platforms and Windows
   NT. 

   Threaded Scripting Language:
   Conceived and implemented a programming language supporting thread control and
   synchronization. This language was used for QA scripts exercising the Sybase
   XA transaction management product, and was written in C under Solaris Unix,
   using DCE thread primitives.  

   Source Code Distribution Shell Script Suite:
   Designed and implemented a suite of Bourne shell scripts to efficiently distribute
   the Sybase connectivity codeline (around 5000 files) to a set of host machines
   for build and test, and keep these distributed codelines in sync through incremental
   updates. This suite smoothly handles partial network outages and host failures.




7/1990--3/1992 Systems Analyst for TRW Corporation, Berkeley, CA  
   C: NextFile,
   a File-Processing, Application-Generating Language:
   Conceived and implemented a language to operate on structured files. Designed,
   implemented and tested a code generator nf which from NextFile specifications
   generates file processing applications in C, including integrity-checkers,
   file dumpers and filters. nf was writtten in C, its parser with lex and yacc.


   C: File Distribution Server:
   Implemented a server process and interface library to distribute new revisions
   of files over a network. This program was written in C under BSD Unix, and
   communicates over the network via the UDP protocol, and was deployed at the
   credit receipt processing facilities of American Express. 

   C: Swapping hex Editor:
   Designed and wrote an editor which displays files in both character and hex
   dump format, and which allows editing arbitrarily large files by paging portions
   into and out of memory. This program was written in C under BSD Unix. 

   C: Image Archiver:
   Designed, implemented and tested this multi-threaded program under OS/2 in C
   to archive massive data to hard drives. Simultaneously driving seven hard drives,
   this program was able to keep pace with the projected voluminous output from
   IBM mainframe image processing peripherals. 

   C: Image Server Processor Integration:
   Integrated and debugged complex multi-tasking OS/2 program suite, designed to
   drive mainframe peripherals and process their output. Combined system monitors,
   programs manipulating the 370-channel APPC (Token Ring), and the SCSI drives
   into a correctly functioning whole. 



6/1988--6/1990 Software Development Engineer for Aion Corporation. Palo Alto, CA
   Pascal: Aion Development System (ADS) Port from OS/2 to MVS:
   Assisted in porting Aion’s artificial intelligence expert system shell from
   OS/2 MS Pascal code to MVS VS Pascal, resolving compiler and environmental
   differences. Debugged with TSO TEST. 

   Pascal: SQL Client:
   Implemented full function SQL clients on OS/2 and AS/400, complete with network
   interfaces using LU 6.2 (APPC), giving ADS access to SQL Server data. OS/2
   code was written in Microsoft C interfacing with the IBM Database Manager and
   Communications Manager, fully integrated into ADS, and debugged using Codeview
   and SDLC traces. AS/400 code was written in C/400 interfacing with SQL/400
   and Intersystem Communications Files, and debugged using the OS/400 and EPM
   debuggers. 



5/1985--12/1985, 6/1986--8/1986 Systems Programmer for I.B.M. Poughkeepsie, NY
   PL/1 PRINTF Function:
   Designed and implemented library function providing mainframe PL/1 programmers
   automatic message storage allocation, data formatting and output writing, also
   in PL/1 and debugged using CP Per. I know this sounds primitive, but it was
   a big improvement over the group's previous methods for putting out messages,
   which required a lot of programming effort. 

   PL/1 370 Architecture Verification Test Programs:
   Implemented SAK (System Assurance Kernel, an IBM-internal 370 operating system
   used for testing) programs testing the mainframe 3090 370 resource reconfiguration
   instruction, taking memory units, CPUs, vector units, etc. on and off line.
   This software was written in PL/1 under VM and SAK (System Assurance Kernel,
   an IBM-internal 370 operating system used for testing), and debugged using
   CP Per. 



Education:
University of CA at Berkeley, B.S. Computer Science
University of CA at Berkeley, B.A. French
Microsoft University, OS/2 Device Drivers 


